Adding a sample add-in for KeyTips support in unified manifest (#1403)
OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples: Samples/unified-manifest-keytips-wxp/README.md

---

> title: Define keytips for ribbon controls with the unified manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Define KeyTips for the ribbon controls of an Office Add-in
```

page_type: sample

> urlFragment: unified-manifest-keytips-wxp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
urlFragment: office-keytips
```

products:
  - office-excel
  - office-word
  - office-powerpoint
  - office
  - m365
languages:
  - typescript
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies:
    - Add-ins
  createdDate: "05/20/2026 10:00:00 AM"

> description: "This sample shows how to define keytips (keyboard shortcuts shown on Alt) for ribbon tabs, groups, buttons, menus, and menu items in an Office Add-in that uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This sample shows how to define KeyTips for ribbon tabs, groups, buttons, menus, and menu items of an Office Add-in that uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365."
```

> description: "This sample shows how to define keytips (keyboard shortcuts shown on Alt) for ribbon tabs, groups, buttons, menus, and menu items in an Office Add-in that uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365."

Reviewer: Are menu items now supported? We recently updated the conceptual article to say that KeyTips aren't supported for menu items.

---

> # Define keytips for ribbon controls with the unified manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Define KeyTips for the ribbon controls of an Office Add-in
```

This sample shows how to define **keytips** for custom ribbon controls in an Office Add-in that uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365. Keytips are the letters that appear next to ribbon controls when the user presses **Alt**, enabling keyboard-only navigation of the ribbon.

> The sample defines a custom ribbon tab named **Contoso Keytips** in Excel, Word, and PowerPoint, with two groups of buttons and a menu. Each tab, group, button, menu, and menu item has a `keytip` value assigned in the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample shows how to define (KeyTips)[https://support.microsoft.com/office/954cd3f7-2f77-4983-978d-c09b20e31f0e] for custom ribbon controls of an Office Add-in that uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365. KeyTips, also known as sequential key shortcuts or access keys, appear around the ribbon controls when <kbd>Alt</kbd> is pressed. They enable keyboard-based navigation of the ribbon, making the user experience more accessible and efficient.

In this sample, a custom ribbon tab named **Contoso KeyTips** contains buttons and menus to select a color option for the following host-specific actions.

- **Excel**: Changes the color of the selected cell.
-  **PowerPoint**: Inserts a text box with a fill.
-  **Word**: Inserts colored text.

Each tab, group, button, menu, and menu item is assigned a custom KeyTip in the manifest.

To learn more about custom KeyTips for Office Add-ins, see [Add custom KeyTips to your Office Add-ins](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/keytips).
```

## Applies to

> - Excel, Word, and PowerPoint on Windows, Mac and the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom KeyTips are supported in Excel, PowerPoint, and Word on the following platforms.
- Web
- Windows (Version 2603 (Build 19822.20000) and later)
- Mac (Version 16.107 (Build 26030819) and later)
```

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (the latest LTS version).
- The latest version of [Yeoman](https://github.com/yeoman/yo) and the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). To install these tools globally, run the following command via the command prompt:

    ```console
    npm install -g yo generator-office
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We should be able to run this sample without Yeoman.

- Office connected to a Microsoft 365 subscription (including Office on the web). Get a [free developer sandbox](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program#Subscription) that provides a renewable 90-day Microsoft 365 E5 developer subscription.

## Version history

| Version  | Date        | Comments        |
|----------|-------------|-----------------|

> | 1.0      | 05-20-2026  | Initial release |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1.0      | 05-26-2026  | Initial release |
```

## Solution

| Solution | Author(s) |
|----------|-----------|

> | Define keytips for ribbon controls with the unified manifest | Microsoft |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Define KeyTips for the ribbon controls of an Office Add-in | Microsoft |
```

## Run the sample

This sample is configured to run with the unified manifest for Microsoft 365. Two manifest files are provided:

- **manifest.json** — references the add-in's web files hosted on GitHub Pages at `https://officedev.github.io/Office-Add-in-samples/Samples/unified-manifest-keytips-wxp/`.
- **manifest-localhost.json** — references the add-in's web files served from `https://localhost:3000` for local development.

> ### Run the sample on localhost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Run this sample in Excel, Word, or PowerPoint. The add-in web files are served from `https://localhost:3000` on your computer.

```

> 1. Clone or download this repo to your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone or download this repository to your computer.
```

> 1. In a console or terminal, navigate to the **Samples/unified-manifest-keytips-wxp** folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In a console or terminal, go to the root of the project folder **Samples/office-keytips**.
```

> 1. Install dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to install dependencies.
```

    ```console
    npm install
    ```

> 1. Start the local web server and sideload the add-in. This uses **manifest.json** by default; to use the localhost-only manifest, replace `manifest.json` with `manifest-localhost.json` in the `start` script or run the command directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to start the local web server and sideload the add-in in Excel.
```

    ```console
    npm start
    ```

>     Or to target a specific application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to run the add-in on Word or PowerPoint, run one of the following commands instead.
```

    ```console

>     npm run start:desktop:excel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    npm run start:desktop:word
    npm run start:desktop:powerpoint
    ```

> 1. When the add-in loads, you'll see a new **Contoso Keytips** tab on the ribbon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your preferred application opens and the add-in is sideloaded. When the add-in is sideloaded, the **Contoso KeyTips** tab appears on the ribbon.
```

> ### Stop the local web server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the steps in [Try it out](#try-the-sample) to test the sample.

1. To stop the web server, run the following command.
```

```console
npm stop
```

## Try the sample

> 1. Open Excel, Word, or PowerPoint with the add-in sideloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Press the **Alt** key. Keytip letters appear over each ribbon tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Excel, PowerPoint, or Word, press <kbd>Alt</kbd>.

    KeyTips appear for each ribbon tab.
```

> 1. Press **C** then **K** to navigate to the **Contoso Keytips** tab. (`CK` is the keytip assigned to the tab in this sample.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press <kbd>C</kbd> then <kbd>K</kbd> to open the **Contoso KeyTips** tab.
```

> 1. With the tab active, press **Alt** again (if keytips have disappeared) to view the keytips for the controls on the tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. With the **Contoso KeyTips** tab active, if the KeyTips have disappeared from the ribbon, press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>CK</kbd> again. The KeyTips appear for the controls in the tab. Select the key for the color you want to apply to the host action.
```

    - **Buttons 1** group: `R` (Button 1), `O` (Button 2), `Y` (Button 3), `M` (Menu).
    - Open the menu with `M`, then choose: `P`, `C`, `M`, `L`, `B`, or `G` to invoke a menu item.

>     - **Buttons 2** group: `G` (Button 4), `B` (Button 5), `P` (Button 6).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Red**: <kbd>R</kbd>
    - **Orange**: <kbd>O</kbd>
    - **Yellow**: <kbd>Y</kbd>
    - **More colors**: <kbd>M</kbd>
    - **Green**: <kbd>G</kbd>
    - **Blue**: <kbd>B</kbd>
    - **Purple**: <kbd>P</kbd>   
```
I haven't specified the keys for the menu items until I can confirm support for them.

Author: Menuitems are still not supported as Office is not showing keytips for any menuitems(even in-built ribbon menus too).

> 1. Each button and menu item runs a function defined in **src/commands/commands.ts** that displays a notification message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Key parts of the sample

> The keytip values are defined in **manifest.json** (and **manifest-localhost.json**) on each ribbon element:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom KeyTips are defined in the ["keytip"](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-ribbons-array-tabs-item#keytip) property of each ribbon control in the manifest. The `"keytip"` property is supported for the following controls.

- [Custom tabs](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-ribbons-array-tabs-item)
- [Buttons and menus](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-common-custom-group-controls-item)
- [Menu items](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-common-custom-control-menu-item)

The following sample defines a KeyTip for the add-in's tab and button.
```

```json
{

>     "id": "ContosoKeytipsTab",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "id": "ContosoKeyTipsTab",
```

>     "label": "Contoso Keytips",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "label": "Contoso KeyTips",
```

    "keytip": "CK",
    "groups": [
        {

>             "id": "KeytipGroup1",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "id": "KeyTipGroup1",
```

            "label": "Buttons 1",
            "controls": [
                {
                    "id": "Btn1",
                    "type": "button",
                    "label": "Button 1",
                    "actionId": "btn1Action",
                    "keytip": "R"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

The `keytip` property is supported on the following elements in the unified manifest:

- Custom ribbon `tabs`
- `groups` within a tab
- `controls` (buttons and menus)
- `items` (menu items inside a menu)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Moved the list above the code.

## Use the sample in your own project

To add keytips to ribbon controls in your own add-in:

1. Open your **manifest.json** file.
1. Add a `"keytip"` property with a one-to-three character string on any custom ribbon `tab`, `group`, `control`, or menu `item`.

> 1. Use unique keytip letters within each parent scope so each control can be selected unambiguously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is already covered in the conceptual article and the "Key parts of the sample" section so we can remove this section.

## Additional resources

- [Office Add-ins manifest](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/develop/add-in-manifests)
- [Unified manifest for Microsoft 365](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/develop/unified-manifest-overview)
- [Add-in commands](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/add-in-commands)

> - [Keyboard shortcuts in Office Add-ins](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/keyboard-shortcuts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Add custom KeyTips to your Office Add-ins](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/keytips)
```

## Questions and feedback

- Did you experience any problems with the sample? [Create an issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/issues/new/choose) and we'll help you out.
- We'd love to get your feedback about this sample. Go to our [Office samples survey](https://aka.ms/OfficeSamplesSurvey) to give feedback and suggest improvements.
- For general questions about developing Office Add-ins, go to [Microsoft Q&A](https://learn.microsoft.com/answers/topics/office-js-dev.html) using the office-js-dev tag.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2026 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

> <img src="https://pnptelemetry.azurewebsites.net/pnp-officeaddins/samples/unified-manifest-keytips-wxp" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="https://pnptelemetry.azurewebsites.net/pnp-officeaddins/samples/office-keytips" />
```
